[zcash-android-wallet-sdk](../../../index.md) / [cash.z.wallet.sdk.secure](../../index.md) / [Wallet](../index.md) / [WalletBirthday](index.md) / [&lt;init&gt;](./-init-.md)

# &lt;init&gt;

`WalletBirthday(height: `[`Int`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-int/index.html)` = -1, time: `[`Long`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-long/index.html)` = -1, tree: `[`String`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-string/index.html)` = "")`

Represents the wallet's birthday which can be thought of as a checkpoint at the earliest moment in history where
transactions related to this wallet could exist. Ideally, this would correspond to the latest block height at the
time the wallet key was created. Worst case, the height of Sapling activation could be used (280000).

Knowing a wallet's birthday can significantly reduce the amount of data that it needs to download because none of
the data before that height needs to be scanned for transactions. However, we do need the Sapling tree data in
order to construct valid transactions from that point forward. This birthday contains that tree data, allowing us
to avoid downloading all the compact blocks required in order to generate it.

Currently, the data for this is generated by running `cargo run --release --features=updater` with the SDK and
saving the resulting JSON to the `src/main/assets/zcash` folder. That script simply builds a Sapling tree from
the start of Sapling activation up to the latest block height. In the future, this data could be exposed as a
service on the lightwalletd server because every zcashd node already maintains the sapling tree for each block.
For now, we just include the latest checkpoint in each SDK release.

New wallets can ignore any blocks created before their birthday.

### Parameters

`height` - the height at the time the wallet was born

`time` - the time the wallet was born, in seconds

`tree` - the sapling tree corresponding to the given height. This takes around 15 minutes of processing to
generate from scratch because all blocks since activation need to be considered. So when it is calculated in
advance it can save the user a lot of time.